=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

sakura - A simple but powerful libvte-based terminal emulator.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

sakura [options...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

sakura is a terminal emulator based on GTK+ and VTE. It's a terminal emulator with few dependencies, so you don't need a full GNOME desktop installed to have a decent terminal emulator.

=head1 HELP OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-?, --help>

Show help options.

=item B<--help-all>

Show all help options

=item B<--help-gtk>

Show GTK+ Options

=back

=head1 APPLICATION OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-v, --version>

Print version number

=item B<-f, --font>

Select initial terminal font

=item B<-n, --ntabs>

Select initial number of tabs

=item B<-x, --execute>

Execute command

=item B<-e, --xterm-execute>

Execute command (compatible with xterm's -e option)

=item B<-l, --login>

Login shell

=item B<-t, --title>

Set window title

=item B<-c, --columns>

Set columns number

=item B<-r, --rows>

Set rows number

=item B<-h, --hold>

Hold window after execute command

=item B<-d, --working-directory>

Set working directory

=item B<-m, --maximize>

Maximize window

=item B<-s, --fullscreen>

Fullscreen mode

=item B<--display=DISPLAY>

X display to use

=item B<--config-file=FILENAME>

Use alternate configuration file. Path is relative to the sakura config dir.
(Example: ~/.config/sakura/FILENAME).

=back

=head1 GTK+ OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<--class=CLASS>

Program class as used by the window manager

=item B<--name=NAME>

Program name as used by the window manager

=item B<--screen=SCREEN>

X screen to use

=item B<--sync>

Make X calls synchronous

=item B<--gtk-module=MODULES>

Load additional GTK+ modules

=item B<--g-fatal-warnings>

Make all warnings fatal

=back

=head1 KEYBINDINGS SUPPORT

B<sakura> supports keyboard bindings. They are configurable by setting the following properties in your sakura config file (~/.config/sakura/sakura.conf).

=head2 ACCELERATORS

Accelerators can be set to any mask value from the GdkModifierType in gdktypes.h; see:

http://www.krugle.org/examples/p-6R7SuZt1c28ljzpZ/gdktypes.h

or, on your own system:

/usr/include/gtk-2.0/gdk/gdkkeysyms.h

Mask values can be combined by ORing them.

For example, to set the delete tab accelerator to Ctrl + Shift:

del_tab_accelerator=5

because GDK_SHIFT_MASK has a value of 1 (1 << 0), and GDK_CONTROL_MASK has a value of 4 (1 << 2); ORing them together, you get 5.

I realise that this configuration is not so friendly to non-programmers, but it is a start. :)

=head2 KEYS

For example, to set the add tab key to 'T':
            
add_tab_key=T

Before sakura used keycodes instead of strings. They're still valid.	


=head2 DEFAULTS	

    Ctrl + Shift + T                 -> New tab
    Ctrl + Shift + W                 -> Close current tab
    Ctrl + Shift + C                 -> Copy selected text
    Ctrl + Shift + V                 -> Paste selected text
    Alt  + Left cursor               -> Previous tab
    Alt  + Right cursor              -> Next tab
    Alt  + [1-9]                     -> Switch to tab N (1-9)
    Ctrl + Shift + S                 -> Toggle scrollbar
    Ctrl + Shift + Mouse left button -> Open link
    F11                              -> Fullscreen
    Shift + PageUp                   -> Move up through scrollback by page
    Shift + PageDown                 -> Move down through scrollback by page
    Ctrl + Shift + Up                -> Move up through scrollback by line
    Ctrl + Shift + Down              -> Move down through scrollback by line

You can also increase and decrease the font size in the GTK+ standard way (not configurable):
 
    Ctrl + '+'                       -> Increase font size
    Ctrl + '-'                       -> Decrease font size

=head1 BUGS

B<sakura> is hosted on Launchpad. Bugs can be filed at:

https://bugs.launchpad.net/sakura

=head1 AUTHORS

B<sakura> was written by David Gómez <david@pleyades.net>. 

This manual page was written by Andrew Starr-Bochicchio <a.starr.b@gmail.com>.

Both are released under the GNU General Public License, version 2 or later.

=cut
